in the wake of humanity's extinction a
teenage girl is raised by a robot
designed to repopulate the earth but
their unique bond is threatened when a
stranger arrives with alarming news
welcome to total recaps
today we will explain a 2019 sci-fi
mystery titled i am mother get ready for
some spoilers take a seat and enjoy
an extinction level catastrophe occurs
in the near future and an underground
bunker serving as a repopulation
facility is triggered
its mission is to repopulate the planet
there are now 63 000 embryos in the
system with no human inhabitants
a robot called mother starts her program
by growing a human embryo into a baby
which she then raises through childhood
when the little girl inquires as to why
she is the soul kid mother responds that
she needs some time to learn about child
rearing
years later a teenage daughter lives in
the bunker with her mother
in preparation for an impending test
mother teaches daughter about ethics and
morality
later the facility's electricity goes
out taking mother with him daughter
investigates the problem and discovers a
mouse that caused an electrical failure
the mouse according to daughter
indicates there is life beyond the
bunker but mother feels the mouse is a
disease carrier and burns it mother also
disinfects the airlock and places a
quarantine around the location
daughter detects something coming from
the direction of the airlock a few days
later
when the daughter goes near to the other
hatch she hears a lady yelling for help
and claiming she's been shot
daughter immediately unlocks the safety
doors and lets the poor lady inside
an alarm goes off awakening mother so
daughter tells the stranger to hide
mother then arrives and punishes
daughter for opening the doors she takes
her to classroom to teach her about
right and wrong
daughter returns to the airlock as soon
as mother has left finding the lady
unconscious
when the lady sees the water she removes
her mask and tells daughter that she has
been deceived about the virus as it
turns out mother constantly reminds
daughter there is a deadly virus outside
and she must not go out daughter manages
to conceal her in another area of the
facility and rushes to get a medication
for the stranger
when daughter hears mother coming by she
breaks one of the medication bottles and
wounds herself on it meanwhile mother
finds stranger's mask and burns it while
the stranger watches her do so
when daughter returns the lady
approaches her and begs for her pistol
the daughter took from her when she was
unconscious describing the robot she saw
the girl informs the stranger that it is
mother but stranger tells the girl that
robots hurt her when she was outside the
robot then arrives searching for the
daughter the woman then takes the gun
and shoots the approaching robot but the
robot was not harmed and after a short
discussion with daughter it takes the
woman to the hospital area but daughter
is made to wait outside by mother
mother is now free to question the lady
while treating her
mother informs the lady that her main
goal is to care for mankind and she must
protect the girl the best she can
she explains why she had to lie to
daughter about the fake infection in
order to protect her from the dangers
outside the facility
daughter has trouble digesting the new
knowledge but she still believes mother
when she says the lady almost destroyed
her processing unit
later daughter digs through women's
luggage and discovers a book with
drawings
she visits the infirmary to speak with a
lady and inquire about the drawings of
the people she just saw in the book
the woman's mistrust of mother can also
be sensed in her discussion with
daughter who believes she was instructed
to look through her belongings and
interrogate her by mother
when the lady informs her about all the
terrible things the droids have done
daughter maintains her ground and
defends her mother daughter then visits
mother as she treats her injuries and
asks her about other robots but mother
carefully chooses her words and does not
reveal too much meanwhile the woman is
slowly dying due to her gunshot wound
and she needs operation immediately
daughter offers to do the operation
since the woman refuses to allow mother
touch her
she agrees to be operated by the girl
but refuses anesthesia and passes out
soon after the extremely painful
operation
daughter later waits for the woman to
awaken after she passed out from the
agony daughter brings her some food and
the woman then thanks the girl for all
she done for her
later daughter sees a chance to inform
the woman that they can put the
survivors of the facility if she tells
them where they are the woman describes
the mining camp where she spent the most
of her life
then she explains that she arrived to
the facility to flee the droids that had
murdered her stepbrother the girl
insists on bringing the survivors to the
facility but the woman offers her the
option of joining her and the others in
the mines which is safer
mother comes in and interrupts their
discussion telling daughter that the
lady needs to relax while she finishes
her exam as they leave the hospital
mother informs her that the bullet that
was shot in her chest matches the one
that daughter recovered from the woman's
wound
mother indicates that another human may
have shot the lady perhaps for good
reason
daughter then takes another exam and
gets brilliant results
as a result mother gives her a chance to
choose an embryo she will then raise
daughter will finally have a sibling
later daughter arrives to the infirmary
to confront the woman about the bullet
the lady immediately cast out on
mother's account regarding the gunshot
persuading her to do her own
investigation
as a result later that night daughter
uses mother's injured hand to unlock the
cabinets containing the bullets
when daughter compares the bullet side
by side she finds that they are totally
different sizes implying that mother
lied to her she discovers a drawer with
no label while remaining in the storage
area
daughter examines the embryo containers
and discovers that she was the third kid
born from that batch not the first
the subject was a failure according to
the papers but the kid in the picture
looks like daughter when she was younger
daughter also looks for human remains in
the incinerator and discovers a human
jawbone among the ash
daughter is now in shock she now
believes the woman more than mother
daughter now wants to leave the place
with a woman and she wants to take her
baby brother with her
the lady suggests that they leave now
and seek assistance from the mind's
residence
when mother sees daughter packing the
provisions for their trip the following
day she tells her to stop and afterwards
locks her up in the kitchen
daughter attempts to escape while mother
goes to the hospital to confront the
woman the girl swiftly finds out how to
freeze the glass and then shatter it
using a kind of gas
meanwhile mother plays a tape of the
woman's discussion with daughter
informing her of their plan
she was monitoring every move the woman
has done the woman suddenly sees a
chance to fight her and manages to
temporarily incapacitate the robot but
she simply continues going grabbing her
by the neck
meanwhile daughter considers sounding
the fire alarm which alerts mother the
lady escapes and finds daughter while
mother is inspecting where is the fire
she persuades the girl that if they
leave the facility immediately and
recruit others from the mind to assist
them they would return for the others
they make it to the airlock and when the
woman sees mother coming she sees his
daughter as a hostage in order to force
mother to open the door
mother not wanting to harm daughter
agrees to her desire and the two of them
eventually leave the institution
the girl is angry because what just
happened but they continue their journey
together anyways
they stumble upon a huge cornfield and
woman tells the girl before it people
were struggling to breathe
they arrive on a beach with a huge
shipwreck and tons of cargo containers
one of those containers is actually the
place where the woman lives the woman
admits that she had left the mines years
earlier because the people who lived
there started behaving badly when hunger
hit
she informs daughter that locating them
is impossible since they've all gone
insane
daughter is shocked by the impending
catastrophe of the woman's life outside
and regrets abandoning her brother
despite the woman's best efforts to
persuade her to remain daughter
ultimately abandons her and returns to
the institution on her own
when she approaches the facility the
guardian robots point their weapons
towards her but they let her go when she
mentions mother the door opens for her
to enter but she quickly disables it to
prevent the robots from entering she
searches for mother and finds her
together with the infant mother urges
her to go closer but to put the axe away
daughter continues letting her defenses
down as mother explains her purpose and
the facility's purpose
the robot informs her that her goal was
to create a better human than the ones
who destroyed the world and themselves
mother did all she could to raise her
human creations to a higher level even
if she was the one who ultimately
created the extinction catastrophe
she reveals how all robots are the same
controlled by one mind belonging to
mother
she controls them all and she destroyed
human race
meanwhile as they speak an army of
robots is trying to break into the
facility
mother tells daughter that she can leave
the facility without her brother or she
can stay and help mother raise the
little boy
daughter chooses to stay but to raise
the kid on her own as they speak one
robot can be seen approaching the woman
in her container it seems like woman's
bag was bugged so mother was able to
trace her down
the robot tells the woman how she served
her purpose meaning that she was also
once a project raised inside the
facility by the mother
the woman is then killed back in the
facility mother agrees to daughter's
idea and points her how to shut her down
in the end daughter is left alone with a
baby and thousands of embryos that will
start the life on earth once again
thank you for watching
if you want to see more make sure to
subscribe and turn on notifications
see you later